If you find content that violates this policy, report it. Instructions for reporting violations of our Community Guidelines [are available here](/youtube/answer/2802027) are available here . If you've found a few videos or comments that you would like to report, you can [report the channel](/youtube/answer/2802027#report_channel) report the channel .

## What these policies mean for you

### If you're posting content

Don’t post content on YouTube if it fits any of the descriptions noted below.

- **Video Spam:** Video Spam: Content that is excessively posted, repetitive, or untargeted and does one or more of the following: Promises viewers they'll see something but instead directs them off site. Gets clicks, views, or traffic off YouTube by promising viewers that they’ll make money fast. Sends audiences to sites that spread harmful software, try to gather personal info, or other sites that have a negative impact.
- **Misleading Metadata or Thumbnails:** Misleading Metadata or Thumbnails: Using the title, thumbnails, or description to trick users into believing the content is something it is not. This includes titles, thumbnails, or descriptions leading viewers to believe they will see something in a video, but then not including it in the video content itself.
- **Scams:** Scams: Content offering cash gifts, “get rich quick” schemes, or pyramid schemes (sending money without a tangible product in a pyramid structure).
- **Incentivization Spam:** Incentivization Spam: Content that sells engagement metrics such as views, likes, comments, or any other metric on YouTube. This type of spam can also include content where the only purpose is to boost subscribers, views, or other metrics. For example, offering to subscribe to another creator’s channel solely in exchange for them subscribing to your channel, also known as "Sub4Sub" content.
- **Comments Spam:** Comments Spam: Comments where the sole purpose is to gather personal info from viewers, misleadingly drive viewers off YouTube, or perform any of the prohibited behaviors noted above.
- **Repetitive comments:** Repetitive comments: Leaving large amounts of identical, untargeted or repetitive comments. Note that this type of engagement may lead to the removal of your comments.
- **3rd party content:** 3rd party content: Live streams that include unauthorized 3rd party content that are not corrected after repeated warnings of possible abuse. Channel owners should actively monitor their live streams and correct any potential issues in a timely manner.

This policy applies to videos, video descriptions, comments, live streams, and any other YouTube product or feature. Keep in mind that this isn't a complete list. Please note these policies also apply to [external links](/youtube/answer/9054257) external links in your content. This can include clickable URLs, verbally directing users to other sites in video, as well as other forms.

## Video Spam

The following types of content are not allowed on YouTube. Keep in mind this list isn't a complete list.

- Content that promises viewers they'll watch something but instead directs them off site to view.
- Posting the same content repeatedly across one or more channels.
- Massively uploading content that you scraped from other creators.
- Trying to get viewers to install harmful software, or directing them to sites that might compromise their privacy.
- Autogenerated content that computers post without regard for quality or viewer experience.
- Promising money, products, software, or gaming perks at no charge if viewers install software, download an app, or perform other tasks.
- Massively posting affiliate content in dedicated accounts.
- Repeatedly uploading content that you don’t own and that isn’t [EDSA](/youtube/answer/6345162) EDSA .

- A thumbnail with a picture of a popular celebrity that has nothing to do with the video content.
- Using the title, thumbnail, or description to lead a viewer to think they will see a genre of content that is not actually contained in the video. For example, leading a viewer to think they will see an analysis from a well-known news anchor, but the video contains a music video instead.
- Titles, thumbnails, or descriptions leading viewers to believe they will see something in a video, but then not including it in the video content itself.
- Using the title, thumbnail, or description to indicate a newsworthy event recently took place or is taking place, but then not addressing that event in the video content.

## Scams

- Making exaggerated promises, such as claims that viewers can get rich fast or that a miracle treatment can cure chronic illnesses such as cancer.
- Promoting cash gifting or other pyramid schemes.
- Accounts dedicated to cash gifting schemes.
- Videos that promise "You'll make $50,000 tomorrow with this plan!"

## Incentivization Spam

- Videos where the purpose is to encourage viewers to subscribe.
- "Subs 4 Subs" videos.
- Videos that offer "likes" for sale.
- A video that offers to give the channel to the 100,000th subscriber without any other content.

## Comments Spam

- Comments about surveys or giveaways that promote pyramid schemes.
- "Pay Per Click" referral links in comments.
- Comments that falsely claim to offer full video content. This type of content could be: Movies TV shows Concerts
- Posting links to harmful software or phishing site in comments: "omg just got tons of B∪cks from here! - [xyz phishing site].com"
- Comments with links to counterfeit stores.
- "Hey, check out my channel/video here!” when the channel/video has nothing to do with the video it was posted in.
- Posting the same comment repeatedly with a link to your channel.

## 3rd party content

- Using your phone to stream a television show.
- Using 3rd party software to livestream songs from an album.

Remember these are just some examples, and don't post content if you think it might violate this policy.

## What happens if content violates this policy

If your content violates this policy, we may suspend your monetization or terminate your channel or account. Learn more about [monetization policies](/youtube/answer/1311392) monetization policies and [channel or account terminations](/youtube/answer/2802168) channel or account terminations .

For some violations, we may remove the content and issue a warning or a strike against your channel. If this happens, we’ll send you an email to let you know.

You can take an optional policy training to allow the warning to expire after 90 days. However, if your content violates the same policy within that 90 day window, the warning may not expire and your channel may be given a strike. If you violate a different policy after completing the training, you will get another warning. We may prevent repeat offenders from taking policy trainings in the future.

If you get 3 strikes within 90 days, your channel may be terminated. Learn more about [our strike system](/youtube/answer/2802032) our strike system .